All right, I wanna touch on conversion,
which is another operator.
Sometimes C# will do it for
you automatically in very
limited circumstances.
I wanna emphasize that,
again, there's no magic,
there's no surprises, inasmuch as
one would expect from the language.
I will start by saying int a = 5.
And what will happen is a,
it's an integer, right,
it doesn't have a decimal place.
So, if you assign double b to a,
under the hood it will automatically say,
okay, well, a can be a double,
it's now 5.000,
whatever,it would be in
a floating point variable.
The opposite is not true.
Int c, if we tried to assign it to b,
we will get a compiler error that says
that we cannot implicitly
convert double to int.
So implicit conversions
are fairly limited in C#,
you can actually create your
own limited conversions.
I can't tell you the last time I did,
because, again, I don't like magic.
Typically I write a function or
something else to convert that value for
me if I wanted to do that.
Explicit conversions,
also known as a cast,
you could say, hey,
I wanna cast this thing to a double.
This becomes more important when
you're talking about types where
at runtime you may get an object variable,
but
you don't necessarily know
the type ahead of time at runtime.
So that does happen, that is a thing.
Very useful,
mostly useful to just know for now,
not necessarily useful to apply, we'll
see examples of that as we go through.
And then, let's see.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: I mentioned
earlier that there is parse methods.
And a lot of the core types like int,
double,
they all have a method that you can
use to parse to a string to a value,
which is something that you
will do quite a bit actually.
As you're taking input from
text boxes from users,
you'll wanna be able to
convert those strings.
Sometimes the framework does it for you,
sometimes it won't if you're
writing it a certain different way.
So you wanna be able to convert
those things into their target type.
So if we wanted to say what is my age,
we might say int.Parse.
And let's pretend it came from a text box,
42 ,and then we say textboxAge,
and then we're able to
get this age variable.
And you can see,
as long as it doesn't crash,
we know that that parse
operation handled successfully.
So there's bool.Parse, so you can parse
true or false, there's double.Parse.
Let's see, I declared it here as an int.
So there's pretty much any of
the core types, DateTime.Parse, they
all have parse methods, static methods
that you can use to perform that parse.
But there's also one other method for
performing the parse that I think is
really important, which is the TryParse.
So we mentioned earlier about exceptions
and knowing when they can happen.
You could very easily wrap
a try catch around this,
and then catch a format exception and
then return invalid Console.WriteLine
"invalid input", you can do that.
It's a lot of code, right?
That's a lot of stuff to write
to just try one operation,
so what you can do instead of this
is do what's called a TryParse.
Let me show you what that looks like.
So, let's declare it as
a bool tryParseResult =
let's say int.TryParse(textBoxAge).
You see, why is it giving me a compiler error?
It actually has a second argument,
this is a little bit of a new syntax.
But what it is essentially saying, there's
what's called an "out" that you can return.
So this is kind of like a return
value from a method, but
one that's defined inside of a parameter.
This was really important back in
the olden days of .NET when out parameters
were the best way at the time of
returning multiple values from a method.
And here's how you would
use them back then.
You would declare your age here,
you would say bool TryParse, and
then you would say out age.
And the out is necessary,
otherwise it will complain at you.
Say out age, and then,
what you have is a boolean to say, well,
is this result successful or not?
So if you say, if (!tryParseResult),
which is just basically this operator
right here, is the negation operator.
It says whatever the opposite of this is.
So if this is not successful,
is what this is saying,
then we would print
Console.WriteLine("invalid input");, boom.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: dotnet run,
and you can see that because this parsed
it successfully, Console.WriteLine("invalid input")
didn't run.
But as soon as we put anything else in
there in a format that it can't interpret,
you'll see that it gives invalid input.
This is a useful way of testing a result
without actually trying to go through
the motion of trying and
catching exceptions.
It's very useful for avoiding that,
it helps keep the code concise.
I also wanna point out,
you don't have to declare your
integer down here like this anymore.
You can say out var,
you can actually declare it up there, and
that was introduced I'd say about ten or
so years ago, so
you can do this all in a single line.
So if I have try parse result,
and then age, dot, and
it will complain to you that, let's see,
identifier, explain, Console.WriteLine.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: You'll see
that it actually does have a value.
And in this case the default
value of this is 0,
the default value of integer is 0,
so it just prints 0.
But if try parse result is successful,
then the value will be populated.
So if we go back to 42 and
run it again, you can see that 42 is
the value of age variable and
it does, indeed, print valid input.
So TryParse is on DateTime, int, decimal,
lots of different base classes,
the base types defined in .NET.
So I highly recommend using those,
I use those a ton.
The last thing that I will
mention is the convert class,
I would highly advise that
you take a look at all
of the different things,
it's a static class.
So that means you just use
the methods that are on this class,
you can convert things like
the string true to the Boolean type.
Some of these are very odd in that they
will straight up tell you that they
will always throw an exception.
So if you try to convert a DateTime
to a Boolean, it will just always fail.
Little vestigial things like that
in C# never fail to amuse me.
But the convert class is another way as if
you know that you wanna be able to convert
between types, the convert class is
the most best way to do that explicitly.
That's how you, for instance, would say,
you can't double a,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: You can't
declare an int to a, but
you can Convert.ToInt32(a).
And what that will do is,you
will obviously lose precision,
because the 4.2 will get chopped off, but
it will explicitly convert it to a.
So, again, kind of emphasizing
the lack of, quote unquote,
magic thing that happens under the hood.
I think C# does a great job of
protecting you from these things.